Radiofrequency identification (RFID) systems are among the most important
embedded systems that saw fast evolutions during the last years. These systems are used in
several applications, such as, health, transportation, access control, etc. However, the
communication in this technology is based on radio waves, which poses problems in
security and privacy.
In the literature of design and implementation of authentication protocols on RFID
systems, we can find many protocols developed using various algebraic and cryptographic
primitives (asymmetric cryptosystems, symmetric cryptosystems, hash function, bitwise
operators, etc.). The limitation of resources (e.g. memory, computation, etc.) on low-cost
RFID tags does not permit the implementation of all the cryptosystems. Among
cryptographic primitives used to secure the RFID authentication protocols, we cite codebased cryptography. It is very fast, it resists quantum attacks, and does not require any
crypto-processor.
In our thesis, we analyse the security of several recent RFID authentication
protocols. We propose a new RFID protocol oriented towards access control applications.
It uses cryptographic hash function and Biometric hash function. After that, we propose
two improved protocols based on two variants of McEliece encryption scheme, the first is
the randomized McEliece cryptosystem, and the second is Quasi Cyclic-Moderate Density
Parity Check (QC-MDPC) McEliece cryptosystem.
Our work also includes a comparison between our proposed protocols and different
existing protocols based on error-correcting codes in terms of security and performance.
Security properties are proved by AVISPA (Automated Verification Internet Protocol and
its Applications) tools, and the privacy property is verified by Ouafi-Phan model. The
Performance of proposed protocols is analysed in terms of storage requirement,
communication cost and computational cost. The performance of our protocols are
effective, don’t need to do exhaustive search, and the tag can perform lightweight
cryptographic operations