Religious discourse and the conduct of religious affairs in Algeria is one of the issues in which there is much discussion, and each presents it according to his perspective and references. There are those who touched on the cultural background in this field, and others touched upon the ideological monopoly of Islam in the political field. Whatever the case, the religious issue in Algeria is addressed. It needs more than one approach to reach a realistic and calm understanding of the phenomenon that remains imprinted with a characteristic and subjective, especially in the traditional structures structuring the religious field in Algeria, which are structurally linked to the functions of the institution, through the strong symbolism derived from religion. Which characterized the development of the religious institution in Algeria, before and during the French occupation, and then after independence, let us then address the factors that structured the religious field in Algeria. The religious problem is not new, as some elements of the conflict between the official Islam of the state and informal Islam date back to separate periods. The conflict between the zawiya and the reform movement and the central colonial authority over religious influence and in return for the emergence of authoritarian competition for the zawiya resort to religious reconciliation and the adoption of a political balance between popular Islam (zawiya) and official Islam. The conflict between the central authority and the angles will also flare up during the nineteenth century. The level of knowledge also leads us to look at the spiritual climate of Algerian society in its present and past, or how the political discourse deals with the religious issue, and the role of the historical aspect in its crystallization. The historical approach also contributes to identifying the relationship between the religious and the political in the period prior to independence and the establishment of the national state, as that period is rich in manifestations of strong use of religious discourse, which is in stark contrast with the logic of its relationship with religion during the establishment of the national state and perhaps its use of religious discourse during the resistance to the colonizer, It constitutes an important thread to reach a deep understanding of the mechanisms that control the relationship between the religious and the political, the most important of which is the deep tactical employment of pragmatism. Â• What are the historical and subjective factors and determinants that shaped the relationship between the religious field in Algeria and the political system, and what is the effect of the previous factors on the conduct of the religious field in the relationship between the political religion? The central problem, then, is to determine the nature of the relationship between the political and religious spheres in Algeria. Are we in front of a secularism based on the separation between them? Or are we about to dominate the religious over the political and thus frame the latter through the religious reference? It seems that the position on the religious issue was not a circumstantial and utilitarian position, as much as it was an expression of a knowledge, political and personal formation._ It also appears that the presence of the religious issue in the political discourse, even if some changes occurred, it is the product of the interests of the state and the requirements of political mobilization, and the requirements of that stage if The study belongs to more than one field of social sciences and humanities. Even if it belongs to the field of political systems, its analysis of social and political variables makes it approach the field of sociology, specifically political sociology, and at the same time it studies the area of ​​interaction between the fields of political, legal and media sociology. We mean an analysis of the media and political discourse. Â• The subject of the study is characterized by diversity. In fact, the study does not focus only on one experience of the relationship between the religious institution and the political system, as much as it studies three experiences, each with its environmental framework and its different political and social context. The colonial era and its impact until the post-independence stage. (3) The richness and extension of the experience, the religious affair has been running since the colonial period, and we can say even during the Ottoman period and the manner in which the colonizer treated the attractions around the religious issue. (4) The experience of the national and reformist movement and the political and social system on the conduct of religious affairs in general has remained far from the circle of research, scientific and media interest, although it may be richer and richer in theoretical and practical indications. The study also relied on three sources to collect information and data, representing the first source in the archival sources. That is, the archive located in the interests of the archives in Algeria, Oran and France, books, scientific periodicals, data and published documents related to the subject of the study. Commitment to the study’s methodology and achieving its objectives required dividing it into four chapters along with an introduction containing the methodological framework of the study. The national state after independence and the religious issue. As for the fourth chapter: It monitors the structure of the religious institution, that is, the religious field, a field research on religious actors and their opinions on the limits of the relationship between the two fields.