The topic of the thesis, which we are about to study, analyze and work on in its aspects, is one of the topics that contains a set of important concepts, as it contains three dimensions: the city, youth and violence. The residents of the two neighborhoods are of different ages, ranging from 18 to 50 years old. Through this, we saw that the city as a space for expressing the relationships and interactions between social actors of different levels and social strata did not contain the values ​​of the city, which are based on the character of individual interaction and exclusivity, and obedience behind the legal system supervised by state institutions, but rather we saw a kind that preserves the existing process. On the group and solidarity between individuals and groups in the neighborhoods studied. We also found a lack of respect for state institutions, and this is what makes us re-questions about this urban space and re-understanding it through the actors and social in it, especially the youth group, which constitutes the vast majority in this human composition. It is also the central actor in creating violence as an expressive means to communicate the content of concerns and needs Condemnation of lived reality. The issue of violence and youth in the Hamri neighborhood also stems from the peculiarity of this neighborhood as it is located near the stadium, and in many cases there are altercations between security men and the youth only because the local team lost a football match, and evidence of this is the fall of the Mouloudia Oran team representing Hamri neighborhood in 2008 AD to the section Second, three days of demonstrations took place, disrupting traffic and requiring the intervention of security forces in significant numbers to put an end to the violence. This violence was collective among young people of different ages and classes; The unemployed, the rich, the workers, the poor...etc. and the educated and uneducated segments, as they all united to express their anger and resentment over this downfall, in addition to the issue of social vulnerability they live in due to the deterioration of the standard of living in general. This enables us to infer from the sociology of the fact that in this neighborhood there is an automatic solidarity between individuals and segments of the neighborhood, when they face a danger that threatens the credibility of their neighborhood, and they all unite, everyone is in their place to express this discontent with violence, whether it is material or symbolic. But if we touch on the Sabah neighborhood and the issue of violence in it, it is not that accumulation of historical identities compared to the Hamri neighborhood as a new neighborhood, which was found in favor of the fragile housing in the city of Oran, and thus the morning neighborhood became a mosaic neighborhood for the fragile neighborhoods of Oran, and one of these neighborhoods is the neighborhood of Sidi El Hawari, the neighborhood of the pines Hamri inspiration. These old neighborhoods, with their genes, tried to take possession of this space, so violence emerged between these three new neighborhoods in the thawb of the Al-Sabah neighborhood. Consequently, violence has become a group against a group from the same neighborhood, unlike the Hamri neighborhood, whose violence and violence are unified and collective against those who are outside the neighborhood.