The economic policy represents a groups of methods, procedures,
decisions, and legislations issued by the state in order to regulate the
economic life through the optimal usage of the available economic
resources. This is done to increase the economic growth rates, the
employment levels, and to achieve the internal and external equilibrium
through affecting several factors that the economy depends on and among
these essential factors is the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). Based on
this fact, the study tackles in detail the economic policies including
monetary, fiscal, and trading policies. In addition, this study posits a
comprehensive conception concerning the foreign direct investment and
showing its importance, the role of economic policy in attracting this
investment into the Yemeni environment, and showing the obstacles
encountering implementing such investment in developing countries.
This study also demonstrates the reality of economic policies in Yemen
and its relationship with the foreign direct investment. In this regard, a
mathematical model was composed for obtaining the relationship among
the study’s different variables. The study reveals that there is a statistically
significant positive relationships between the variables as follows:
- There is a statistically significant positive relationship between the
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and the flow of the foreign direct
investment.
- There is a statistically significant negative relationship between the
current accounting’s deficit and the flow of the foreign direct
investment.
- There is a statistically significant relationship between the budget’s
deficit and the flow of the foreign direct investment.
- There is a statistically significant relationship between the interest rate
on lending and the flow of the foreign direct investment. This means
that the interest rate negatively influences the foreign direct investment
because of the fluctuation and instability that the interest rate shows
during the period of conducting this study.
- There is a statistically significant positive relationship between the
inflation rate and the flow of the foreign direct investment due to the
growth of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) caused by non-oil resources.
In general and according to the linear mathematical postulated model, the
flow policy of the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in Yemen depends on
several variables including the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), current
accounting’s deficit, budget’s deficit, interest rate, and the inflation rate