Drug-likeness appears as a promising paradigm to encode the balance among the molecular properties of a compound that influences its pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics and ultimately optimizes their absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion (ADME) in human body like a drug. 
Molecular physicochemical and the drug-likeness are the two most significant properties to be considered for a compound to become a successful drug candidate.
 It is also important for drug development where a pharmacologically active lead structure is optimized step-wise for increased activity and selectivity, as well as drug-like properties as described by Lipinski’s rule. The QSAR is a knowledge-based method where a statistical prediction model is made about biological activity and the presence of molecular descriptors. 
The aim of carrying out a QSAR study is with the help of computational methods the QSAR model can help evaluate biological activity; this is mostly done to reduce failure rate in the drug development process. 
The historical aim of QSAR studies is to predict the specific biological activity of a series of test compounds. Nowadays the main objective of these studies is to predict biological activity of In-silico designed compounds on the basis of already synthesized compounds.
 The molecular modeling and QSAR calculations are used in many fields specially, physics, chemistry, biology, material science as well as tissue engineering and drug design.
Multiple linear regression (MLR), which is one of the most common and simplest method for constructing QSAR models, was used in this study . 
The advantage of MLR is that it is simple to use and the derived models are easy to interpret. 
Our work is placed in the context of fundamental and original research on 1,2,4- oxadiazole and their derivatives, the main objective of this work is the application of different methods of molecular modeling to predict the chemical reactivity and biological activities expected in new bioactive molecules studied.
